# Zephyr RTOS Project Mpu6050 Sensor


## Overall Overview

Some Technologies used in This project are zephyr rtos , mpu6050 sensor ,Wifi , Websockets , esp32  MCU , Backend server and frontend for visualization . 
In this Project data from mpu6050 sensor is read that is accelerometer data  . X , Y and Z which is used to detect rotation from reference X-axis.
This or related sensor can be used in variety of products including wearables devices , drones and any project involve motion detections or orientations etc which is intresting. 
After working with sensor and doing some configuration according to the requirements , For example you can change the sensitivity , power modes and a lot other parameters . That is what Custom code give you control of. Then tje data is sent over Wifi and used websockets which can transfer data in real time with minimum or no delay . I used first TCP/IP which was slow, used just for practiced( Actually TCP will create a new connection with every request which is overhead, no need of making connection and closing again and again. One connection and then transfer real time data and dont close it , here comes the websocket) . The data is received by the server which was connected to the frontend . The frontend used three js for visualization . It shows the rotation from X-axis which I got from accelerometer data only . It can be further optimized if combined with gyroscope data . So shortly that’s it. 
## Some Technical Information 

After Some Work with sensor like wiring and doing some configuration according to the requirements ,Configurations inlcudes,  For example you can change the sensitivity , power modes and a lot other parameters . That is what Custom code give you control of. Then the data is sent over Wifi and used websockets which can transfer data in real time with minimum or no delay . I used first TCP/IP which was slow, used just for practiced( Actually TCP will create a new connection with every request which is overhead, no need of making connection and closing again and again. One connection and then transfer real time data and dont close it ,so that is websocket and finally here comes the websocket) . The data is received by the server which was connected to the frontend . The frontend used three js for visualAfter working with sensor and doing some configuration according to the requirements , For example you can change the sensitivity , power modes and a lot other parameters . That is what Custom code give you control of. Then tje data is sent over Wifi and used websockets which can transfer data in real time with minimum or no delay . I used first TCP/IP which was slow, used just for practiced( Actually TCP will create a new connection with every request which is overhead, no need of making connection and closing again and again. One connection and then transfer real time data and dont close it , here comes the websocket) . The data is received by the server which was connected to the frontend . The frontend used three js for visualization . It showsAfter working with sensor and doing some configuration according to the requirements , For example you can change the sensitivity , power modes and a lot other parameters . That is what Custom code give you control of. Then tje data is sent over Wifi and used websockets which can transfer data in real time with minimum or no delay . I used first TCP/IP which was slow, used just for practiced( Actually TCP will create a new connection with every request which is overhead, no need of making connection and closing again and again. One connection and then transfer real time data and dont close it , here comes the websocket) . The data is received by the server which was connected to the frontend . The frontend used three js for visualization . It shows the rotation from X-axis which I got from accelerometer data only . It can be further optimized if combined with gyroscope data . So shortly that’s it.  the rotation from X-axis which I got from accelerometer data only . It can be further optimized if combined with gyroscope data . So shortly that’s it. ization . It shows the rotation from X-axis which I got from accelerometer data only . It can be further optimized if combined with gyroscope data . So shortly that’s it. 

After working with sensor and doing some configuration according to the requirements , For example you can change the sensitivity , power modes and a lot other parameters . That is what Custom code give you control of. Then tje data is sent over Wifi and used websockets which can transfer data in real time with minimum or no delay . I used first TCP/IP which was slow, used just for practiced( Actually TCP will create a new connection with every request which is overhead, no need of making connection and closing again and again. One connection and then transfer real time data and dont close it , here comes the websocket) . The data is received by the server which was connected to the frontend . The frontend used three js for visualization . It shows the rotation from X-axis which I got from accelerometer data only . It can be further optimized if combined with gyroscope data . So shortly that’s it. 
